Software Requirements Specification
Tue Jun 16 10:54:27 CDT 2015

1. Introduction
    1.1 Purpose
        Use loop modelling to fill in the gap in protein structures.

    1.2 Scope
        The softeware will be used for modeling of MD simulations and helping protein structure prediction. 

    1.3 Definitions, Acronyms, and Abbreviations
        FastLoop: name of the software
        FLDB:   built non-redundant loop structure database
        MUFOLD-FL: FastLoop in MUFOLD package

    1.4 References

    1.5 Overview
        X-ray crystallography is the main method for determining 3D protein struc-
        tures. In many cases, however, loop regions of protein structures can not be
        solved this way. This results in incomplete crystal structures in the protein
        data bank and prevents further study and analysis of the proteins. For instance,
        running full-atom molecular dynamics (MD) simulation requires complete pro-
        tein structures. To address this issue, we have developed a database-based
        method involving deep learning and multi-dimensional scaling algorithms to
        quickly build missing protein loops. We have implemented the method as a
        simple stand-alone program, which can be used as a complementary modeling
        tool for VMD. The qualities of generated structures are estimated with numer-
        ous energy functions and tested in equilibrium MD simulations. This method
        can also be used in template-based protein structure prediction.


2. Overall Description
    2.1 Product Perspective

    2.2 Product Functions

    2.3 User Characteristics

    2.4 General Constrtaints

    2.5 Assumptions and Dependencies


3. Specific Detailed Requirements
    3.1 External Interface Requirements
        3.1.1 User Interfaces
            Executable can be used with cammand line:"FastLoop input.pdb fullsequence.fsa" 
            Plugin of VMD.
        3.1.2 Hardware Interfaces
        3.1.3 Software Interfaces
        3.1.4 Communication Interfaces
            FastLoop call the executable of BLAST
            FastLoop is implemented as a module (class) in MUFOLD package.
    
    3.2 Functional Requirements
        MDS with shortest path, MDS with Deep learning are the core algorithms. 
        3.2.1 Mode 1
            Input structure missing one loop in middle of the sequence (more than 3 AA away from each end). Output the complete full atom structure. 
        3.2.2 Mode 2
            Input structure missing one loop at the end of the sequence. Output the complete full atom structure.
        3.2.3 Mode 3
            Input structure missing multiple loops. Output the complete full atom structure.
    
    3.3 Performance Requirements
        For one target, the final complete fullatom structure should be obtained in 1 minute.

    3.4 Design Constraints
        Standard Compliance. Hardware limitations. Reliablity and Fault Tolenrance. Security.
    3.5 Attributes
    
    3.6 Other Requirements
        Version 1: implemented in Python
        Version 2: implemented in C++



